							LESSON PLAN  (4 hrs)

Docente:		Bruce D. Marron
Ciclo: 			26-3
Materia: 		Inglés X
Curso:			IT1044
Licenciatura: 	Interpretación y Traducción
Grupo:			10A


#####################
HW_08 [Due: 14 July 2026]

--- Task 1
Read Chapters 1 through 3 of "Brave New World". We will officially launch this novel next week.



SAVE
After reading each chapter of the novel as required by the HW assignment, read through the Summary, Major Topics, and Comprehension Questions sections for the corresponding chapters in the document, “UTECA_StudyGuide_Brave-New-World.txt.” You can find the study guide document in your Class Materials folder in Teams. 


a. Select only three (3) chapters of the HW assignment's six chapters and translate the Summaries of these three selected chapters into Spanish.
b. Select only one (1) of the Major Themes from among the HW assignment's six chapters. Provide a short personal commentary and reflection of this Major Topic.



NB. Marron's modified APA format applies (see Class Materials in Teams). Copies must be submitted to Teams in PDF format or printed and given directly to the instructor. Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.

###############################################################




#######
Today
#######
https://www.chinahighlights.com/travelguide/learning-chinese/chinese-sayings.htm

---- Open


	"Water drops pierce stone; rope saws cut wood."

水滴石穿，绳锯木断。 (Shuǐ dī shí chuān, shéng jù mù duàn / 'water drop stone pierce, rope saw wood sever')




Patience and persistence can break through anything, no matter how great the difficulty.

%%%%%%%%%%%%%	Content	%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

-------------
** Exam 2P (Wednesday)

Study Guide Exam 2P  
1. Be able to evaluate your experience with coding
    * How would you evaluate or characterize the Python language?
    * Did you find using the command-line for computer-based tasks helpful or burdensome?
    * How far did you get in the sequence of homework tasks (Install Python? Install Spyder? Get an API key? Setup a virtual environment? Install SDKs for Google and OpenAI? Install the Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK)? Run a simple query using Gemini 2.5 Flash or GPT-5? Obtain an AI-based translation from .txt or .pdf file? Run a comparative analysis of translation quality using a METEOR score using the NLTK?)
    * Give two reasons why API-based access to AI agents is more powerful than simple queries to public agents like ChatGPT.

2. Be able to evaluate your experience with creative writing
    * Do you enjoy creative writing (i.e., writing stories, poems, song lyrics, dialog for plays, etc.)?
    * Of the pieces you wrote for class which was your favorite? Explain why.

3. Review of "The Joy Luck Club"



--------------
** Creative Writing
--- Tips from the Masters: P.D. James:
https://www.writingclasses.com/toolbox/tips-masters

Andrew Motion: 10 Techniques to Spark the Writing
Annie Proulx: 5 Techniques for Good Craftsmanship
**Billy Wilder: 10 Screenwriting Tips
Corita Kent: Ten Rules for Students and Teachers
**Edgar Allan Poe: 5 Essentials for the Betterment of a Story
Elmore Leonard: 10 Rules for Good Writing
**George Orwell: 6 Questions/6 Rules
*Henry Miller: 10 Writing Tips
*Jack Kerouac: 30 Cool Tips
Joyce Carol Oates: 10 Writing Tips
**Kurt Vonnegut: 8 Basics of Creative Writing
Margaret Atwood: 10 Ideas for Writers
Michael Moorcock: 10 Tips for Good Storytelling
Neil Gaiman: 8 Good Writing Practices
P.D. James: 5 Bits of Writing Advice
Rejection: 3 Methods for Coping
Ronald Knox: 10 Commandments of Detective Fiction
*Strunk & White: 11 Composition Principles
Tracy Kidder and Richard Todd: 10 Writing Insights
Zadie Smith: 10 Good Writing Habits



Billy Wilder: Screenwriting Tips

Billy Wilder was one of the greatest writer/directors in film history, having co-written and directed such classics as "Sunset Boulevard", "Some Like it Hot", "The Apartment", and "Double Indemnity". What screenwriter wouldn't want a little advice from him?

Here are some of Wilder's screenwriting tips:

    1. The audience is fickle. Grab 'em by the throat and never let 'em go.
    
    2. Develop a clean line of action for your leading character.
    
    3. Know where you're going. The more subtle and elegant you are in hiding your plot points, the better you are as a writer.
    
    4. If you have a problem with the third act, the real problem is in the first act.

    5, A tip from Lubitsch: Let the audience add up two plus two. They'll love you forever.
    
    6. In doing voice-overs, be careful not to describe what the audience already sees. Add to what they're seeing.
    
    7. The event that occurs at the second act curtain triggers the end of the movie.
    
    8. The third act must build, build, build in tempo and action until the last event, and then—that's it. Don't hang around.



----------
Last few Students reading their work ???
Carlos
Diego
*Hugo
*anette
*Kim
*Diana



-------------------
** Finish "The Joy Luck Club" by Amy Tan 

Mother				Daughter
--------				---------
Suyuan Woo			==> Jing-mei "June" Woo
An-mei Hsu			==>	Rose Hsu Jordan
Lindo Jong			==>	Waverly Jong
Ying-ying St. Clair		==>	Lena St. Clair


DUE TOMORROW
Complete the document, “A Review and Evaluation of Themes, Relationships, and Personal Evolution in the novel, The Joy Luck Club." This document will count 85% of your grade for the 2P exam. You will attach your review to the exam sheet. See "Marron_English-X_StyleGuide.pdf" in Class Materials.


---  Without Wood: Rose Hsu Jordan  (Ch. 11)
As a child, Rose believed everything that her mother told her. A timid youngster, she resisted sleep, fearing nightmares. Her mother told her that Old Mr. Chou guarded the door to dreams. One night, she dreamed that she was in Old Mr. Chou's nighttime garden, where he chased her through the garden, shouting, "See what happens when you don't listen to your mother!"

Thirty years later, Rose's mother is still trying to make her daughter listen. They meet at the funeral for China Mary, a mother who has helped many children in the neighborhood. Rose's mother criticizes Rose for being too thin and for confiding in her psychiatrist rather than in her own mother. Later, Rose considers what her mother said. She realizes that she has been feeling confused, caught in a dark fog of conflicting emotions.

Rose has been telling her friends different versions of her break-up with Ted. For example, Rose told Waverly about the physical pain of divorcing Ted; she told Lena that she feels relieved to be free of him. She told her psychiatrist that she wants revenge — yet, despite her vivid descriptions of revenge, her psychiatrist looks bored.

To settle her conflicting emotions, Rose views all the possessions that she and Ted amassed during their marriage. Soon afterward, Ted sends her a check for $10,000, along with the divorce papers. Is Ted trying to trick her into accepting this money as a full settlement? Is he saying that he still loves her? Unable to decide how to handle the check and papers, Rose stuffs them in a drawer. Her mother once explained Rose's penchant for indecision by saying that Rose was "without wood." Lacking this sturdy fiber, Rose bends in all directions — she cannot stand alone, cannot take a stand for herself.

Rose walks in the garden, a once-immaculate assortment of flowers and herbs, now gone wild from neglect. She then goes to bed and stays there for three days. On the fourth day, she has a nightmare about Old Mr. Chou and awakens when her mother calls her on the telephone. Ted phones and presents his demands. Anxious to remarry, he wants the divorce papers signed immediately, and he also wants the house as part of the settlement. Rose breaks into gales of laughter when she realizes that Ted has been having an affair. She invites him to come over that night, with no idea about what she is going to say.

She ends up showing him the overgrown garden. As they walk through the plants, she hands him the unsigned divorce papers and announces that she will not move out of the house. That night, she dreams of her mother and of Old Mr. Chou and his garden. In the garden, she discovers her mother tending a wild sea of weeds that, she boasts, she herself planted.

Vividly, this section describes how Rose finally finds her "voice," her identity, and the ability to trust herself. From early childhood, Mrs. Hsu attempted to teach her daughter to listen to her and, thus, to learn how to listen to herself. But Rose was a timid child, unsure of where to find the truth, and she grew into a timid woman, uncertain of herself and unwilling to make decisions. Eventually, her indecision frustrated her husband, and the couple grew apart. In her mother's words, Rose was "without wood," lacking both strength and substance. She rejected her mother's wisdom and looked to Americans' opinions of her.


---  Best Quality: Jing-Mei Woo (Ch. 12)
After a Chinese New Year's dinner, Jing-mei's mother gave her a jade pendant which she said was her "life's importance." At first, Jing-mei did not like the pendant; it seemed too big and ornate. After her mother's death, however, the pendant will begin to assume great importance to her — even though she does not really understand the meaning that her mother assigned to it. Later, Jing-mei will notice other Chinese wearing similar pendants and will ask one of them what the pendant signifies. He won't know either.

Jing-mei had helped her mother shop for the crabs that she served at the New Year's dinner. That day, her mother was annoyed about the tenants living in the second-floor apartment of a six-unit building that she owns. She was especially bothered by their cat, which Jing-mei and the tenants suspect that she poisoned. Jing-mei listened patiently to her mother as she poked the crabs to find the liveliest ones. As she was spearing the live crabs from the tank, one of them lost a limb. Mrs. Woo refused to accept it because a maimed crab is bad luck for the New Year. After a lengthy discussion, the fishmonger threw it in for free. When they return home, Jing-mei watches her mother cook, but she leaves the room when Mrs. Woo begins to boil the crabs; she cannot bear to see them die.

There are eleven people at the New Year's celebration. Mrs. Woo hadn't counted Waverly's daughter, Shoshana, and so she purchased only ten whole crabs. When she sees the extra person, she decides to cook the eleventh crab, the one missing a limb. At dinner, Waverly takes the best crab for her child, and Mrs. Woo ends up with the maimed one, which she doesn't eat.

Waverly subtly insults Jing-mei during the dinner, mentioning her choice of hairdresser. Jing-mei retaliates by teasing Waverly about her firm's finances because the bill that Jing-mei submitted for her ad copy has not been paid. Waverly retorts that Jing-mei hasn't been paid because her work was not acceptable — a retort that reduces Jing-mei to tears. Auntie Lindo comes to Jing-mei's rescue, pleading with Waverly to let Jing-mei rewrite the material. Waverly ignores her. Jing-mei goes to wash the dishes; she is no longer angry at Waverly — she simply feels tired and foolish.

Later that night, after everyone has left, Jing-mei asks her mother why she did not eat her crab. Her mother tells her that it was already dead before she cooked it, and thus it was not edible. She cooked it merely because she thought that it might still be good and because she knew that only Jing-mei would pick it, because Jing-mei would never choose the "best quality." She sees this virtue as one of Jing-mei's best qualities. Then she gives to Jing-mei her "life's importance," the jade pendant necklace.

Note that the last section of this chapter is set in the present. Jing-mei is cooking dinner for her father, who has not been eating well since his wife's death. She hears the tenants upstairs and now understands her mother's former complaints. The tenant's cat appears at the window, and Jing-mei realizes that her mother did not poison it, after all.


---  Magpies: An-Mei Hsu (Ch. 13)
To her mother (An-mei), Rose reveals that her marriage is falling apart. Paralyzed with grief and indecision, Rose can do nothing but weep. An-mei understands that by refusing to do something decisive about this problem, Rose is, in effect, choosing to do nothing. She knows that her daughter must make a choice: Rose must try to assert herself or she will lose her chance forever. An-mei understands this character flaw because she herself was taught to demand nothing for herself.

An-mei remembers sixty years ago, when she first saw her mother. An-mei's mother had returned home when her own mother, Popo, lay dying. After Popo died, An-mei's mother prepared to leave. On the eve of her departure, she told An-mei a story from her childhood, when she was a little girl about An-mei's age. Her mother, Popo, told her that she could no longer be a child. From this experience, An-mei's mother learned that it is useless to cry, for tears only feed someone else's joy.

On the morning of her departure, An-mei's mother suddenly takes An-mei with her. On the long journey, she entertains the little girl with stories about the wonders that the child will encounter. On the morning of their arrival, An-mei's mother shocks her daughter by discarding her white mourning dress for Western-style clothes. She has a fine dress for An-mei, too, and explains that they will live in the home of Wu Tsing, a rich merchant.

Despite her description of the wealth that awaits them, An-mei is stunned by the lavish Western-style house and by the scores of servants that she sees. She learns about First Wife, Second Wife, Third Wife, and about her mother — Fourth Wife. At first, little An-mei is delighted by her new home, but about two weeks later, she begins to understand her mother's lack of status in this new household.

Old Wu Tsing arrives with his fifth wife, a woman only a bit older than nine-year-old An-mei, who suddenly realizes that something is wrong here. A few nights later, An-mei is awakened when Wu Tsing comes to her mother's bed. The child is taken to a servant's bed for the night. That afternoon, for the first time, An-mei's mother tells the child about her deep sorrow. As Fourth Wife, she has almost no status within the household.

Soon afterward, the other wives return. First Wife is a plain, honest woman; Second Wife is full of treachery. She gives An-mei a string of pearls to win her affection. To counter Second Wife's trickery, An-mei's mother crushes one of the pearls beneath her feet. The child sees instantly that the pearls are false. From then on, she learns more and more about the wives and their various powers.

First Wife has the most power by virtue of her position, but her spirit was broken after the birth of her first child, who was born with one leg shorter than the other. Her second child had a large birthmark over half her face. First Wife now spends her time going to Buddhist temples seeking cures for her children. She has her own home — and thus, An-mei's mother also wants her own home. Second Wife was a sing-song girl who knows how to control men. To get an increase in her allowance, she feigns suicide by swallowing a piece of raw opium. She continues this ploy until she gets everything she wants — but she cannot have children; therefore, she arranged for Wu Tsing to take a third wife, who gave birth to three daughters. Later, Second Wife arranged for An-mei's mother to become Fourth Wife by tricking her into staying the night, whereupon Wu Tsing raped her. She later gave birth to a son, which Second Wife claimed as her own.

Two days before the New Year, An-mei's mother poisons herself. Empowered by her action, An-mei crushes the pearl necklace that Second Wife gave her. Now, An-mei wants her daughter to stand up for herself and stop suffering in silence.


			
---  Waiting Between the Trees: Ying-Ying St. Clair (Ch. 14)
Lena St. Clair has put her mother in the guest bedroom, the smallest room in the house. Mrs. St. Clair is upset because her daughter does not understand that the guest bedroom should be the best one in the house. To Mrs. St. Clair, her daughter's house looks as though it will break into pieces.

Mrs. St. Clair recalls that she was a wild girl in her youth. Her mother said that she would bring shame to their house, but Ying-ying disregarded these warnings. Her family was one of the richest in Wushi, but the wealth meant little to young Ying-ying. She played on the street with a priceless jade jar, treating it like a toy. When she was sixteen, her aunt married. After the festivities, a male friend of the family humiliated Ying-ying by plunging a knife into a watermelon, a crude symbol suggesting the loss of virginity. Six months later, Ying-ying married this man and fully understood his cruel taunt.

The night of her aunt's wedding was also important to Ying-ying because it was then that she first began to know about things before they happened. It was then that she knew that she would marry the crude man who plunged the knife into the watermelon. Ironically, after they were married, Ying-ying began to love him. It happened one afternoon when he said that she had tiger eyes. Soon afterward, she became pregnant — and discovered that her husband had left her for an opera singer. She had an abortion, and in her grief, she went to live with a second cousin's family. They were terribly poor, but she stayed ten years amid the squalor. Then she moved to the city and became a shop girl. There, she met Clifford St. Clair; she knew at once that they would marry. For four years, he courted her, buying her little trinkets, which meant nothing to her when she set them against the riches she had known. But, nonetheless, she saved the baubles because she knew that she would marry St. Clair. One day, she received a letter saying that her husband was dead, and she decided to let St. Clair marry her. On the day that her daughter was born, she brought out the trinkets he had given her. He adored her, but she loved him only as a ghost would love, without feeling. She had lost her chi, her spirit.

To regain her spirit, Ying-ying is going to confront her past. This pain will free her spirit so she can cut her daughter's spirit free. Like a tiger, Ying-ying sits and waits for her daughter.

The Joy Luck Club has been lavishly praised for its literary techniques. One of the most successful aspects of Tan's techniques is her use of multiple points of view. Notice how Tan retells each story from the mothers' and daughters' points of view. This interweaving of viewpoints underscores the difficulty that the mothers and daughters have communicating with one another. How could they fully understand each other when each is getting only half the story? Shifting viewpoints also serves to unify the book, develop themes, and heighten reality.

Ying-ying sees her daughter's misery; Lena's husband Harold does not. Lena is similarly blind to the reality of her mother. She has no idea of her mother's past. She does not suspect that her mother was once married to another man; she has no inkling that her mother had an abortion. She believes that her father rescued her mother from a poor village; she never imagines that her mother was raised in great wealth. She sees only a frail old lady, not a vigorous, clever tiger. Both stories end the same way, with the poorly balanced table, a symbol of their lives, crashing to the floor.


---  Double face: Lindo Jong (Ch. 15)
Waverly wants to go to China for her honeymoon but is afraid that she will blend in so well that she will not be allowed to return to America. Her mother reassures her that there is no chance that she will be mistaken for a Chinese citizen. Waverly is American. Lindo tried to give her children the best of Chinese and American cultures, but she did not realize that the two ingredients did not mix.

In preparation for her wedding to Rich, Waverly has her favorite hairdresser, Mr. Rory, style her mother's hair. While Mr. Rory works, Waverly acts as though Lindo cannot understand English. Her anger flares when Mr. Rory points out how much Waverly looks like her mother. Looking at her daughter's face in the hairdresser's mirror, Lindo thinks about her girlhood, long ago in China.

On the eve of Lindo's tenth birthday, her mother told her fortune from her face. This incident happened before Lindo was separated from her mother and sent away to be married. When Lindo was preparing to come to America, she paid money to a Chinese woman who had been raised in America and asked her to show her how to "blend in." The woman told Lindo how to answer common questions and then gave her a list of people to contact in San Francisco. For free, the woman advised Lindo to marry an American citizen and have children quickly. That would help her become an American citizen. Lindo wonders why Waverly distorts the facts of her past. Why does Waverly say that Lindo came over "on a slow boat from China" when she took an airplane? Why does Waverly say that Lindo met her husband in the Cathay House when it is not true at all? Lindo recounts the truth in a flashback.

When Lindo arrived in America, she sought out the people whom the Chinese woman had suggested. She found an inexpensive apartment. She also found a job — at a fortune cookie factory. There she met An-mei Hsu, who introduced her to her future husband, Tin Jong. At first, Lindo was appalled that he was Cantonese. But they struck up a friendship for they were both Chinese, despite the fact that they spoke different dialects. They communicated only in rudimentary English. An-mei convinced Lindo to use the fortunes from the cookies to communicate with Tin Jong. Lindo selected "A house is not a home when a spouse is not at home." She gave him the cookie, but he was confused by the word "spouse" and did not propose. The next day, however, he did and Lindo accepted. They were married the following month. Their first child was a son, whom Lindo named Winston. Vincent was born two years later, and Waverly after that. Lindo then turned sad; she became dissatisfied with her circumstances and hoped that Waverly would have a better life. Back in the present, Lindo looks at her finished hairstyle. She sees how much she and Waverly look alike. Seeing her own broken nose, she imagines that Waverly's nose has been broken as well. Waverly brushes aside her mother's observations with a laugh, saying that their noses are good because they look devious and two-faced.

Lindo recalls when she went back to China last year. Even though she took off her jewelry and wore Chinese clothing, people knew that she was foreign. She wonders what she has lost and what she has gotten in return.


--- A Pair of Tickets: Jing-Mei Woo (Ch. 16)
Jing-mei is on a train to China, traveling with her seventy-two-year-old father, Canning Woo. As the train enters Shenzhen, China, Jing-mei begins to "feel Chinese." Their first stop will be Guangzhou. Like her father, Jing-mei is weeping for joy. After her mother's death, a letter arrived from China from her mother's twin daughters from her first marriage. These were the two children whom she was forced to abandon on the side of the road in 1944.

Jing-mei's father asked Auntie Lindo to write back to the girls and tell them that their mother is dead. Instead, Auntie Lindo took the letter to the Joy Luck Club. Together, the women answered the letter, signing Suyuan Woo's name to it. Jing-mei agrees that she should be the one to tell her half-sisters about their mother's death. But after dreaming about the scene many times, she begs Auntie Lindo to write a letter to the sisters explaining that their mother is dead. Auntie Lindo does so. The train pulls into the station, and the visitors are met by Canning's great-aunt. The reunion is emotional. Other relatives join them. Jing-mei wins her young cousin Lili over with instant photographs from her Polaroid camera. They soon arrive at a magnificent hotel, much grander than Jing-mei had expected. Jing-mei is anxious to have her first real Chinese feast; however, the native-born Chinese family decides that they want to eat American — hamburgers, French fries, and apple pie à la mode in the hotel room.

Late that night, Canning explains that his wife's name, "Suyuan," has two different meanings, depending on how it is written. Written one way, it means "Long-Cherished Wish"; written another way, it means "Long-Held Grudge." He further explains that Jing-mei's name means that she is, first, a pure essence, and second, that she is a younger sister. Her name makes her the essence of her two sisters. He then tells her the story of how her mother, Suyuan, abandoned Jing-mei's half-sisters.Suyuan walked for three days, hoping to escape the Japanese invasion. Her hands began to bleed from the weight of her heavy possessions and that of her daughters. She dropped her possessions one by one, continuing to trudge on until she was delirious with pain and fever. She finally fell by the side of the road. Despite her entreaties, no one would take the babies.

Having no other choice, she stuffed jewelry under the shirt of one baby, money under the shirt of the other. Then she put in family pictures and a note and left her daughters to see if she could find food. Soon she fainted and awoke in the back of a truck filled with sick people who were being tended by American missionaries. When she arrived in Chungking, she learned that her husband was dead. She met Canning Woo in the hospital.

The abandoned babies were found by a kindly peasant couple, who raised the girls as their own. When the girls were eight years old, their foster parents tried to find their parents. They located the address of the children's home, but now it was a factory. Meanwhile, Suyuan and Canning had returned to try to find the girls, but their attempts proved fruitless. In 1949, they left for America, but Suyuan never abandoned hope. After she died, a schoolmate saw the twins in a department store and tried to contact Suyuan in America.

Jing-mei sees her sisters as she enters the terminal. At first, they look just like her mother. Later, she sees no trace of her mother — yet the women still look familiar. She sees in them the part of her that is Chinese. HerComplete work on "A Review and Evaluation of Themes, Relationships, and Personal Evolution in the novel, The Joy Luck Club" (in partial fulfillment of Exam 2P). You will turn this in with your 2P exam. See "Marron_English-X_StyleGuide.pdf" in Class Materials.
 father takes a picture of the three girls; they look at the Polaroid photograph, and they see that together, they all look like their mother.

This highly emotional ending to the novel is based on a true incident from Tan's life. In 1987, Tan visited her half-sisters in China. At the time, her mother suffered from a dangerous heart condition and had recently suffered an attack of angina. Tan wanted to find out more about her heritage while her mother was still alive. The trip was a turning point in Tan's life. She explained her reaction in a July 4, 1989, interview in the New York Times. For the first time, Tan "felt a sense of completeness, like having a mother and a father," she said. "It was instant bonding," she continued. "There was something about this country that I belonged to. I found something about myself that I never knew was there." Her fictional creation, Jing-mei, shares the same reaction.





--- Coming up / Save
		
** Humor

** Jobs
	Resumes
	Cover Letter
	Interviews
	Job Sites
	
** Chinese Identity [for final] --------------------------------------------------
	* Read The Construction of Chinese and Non-Chinese Identities (p 2-5) in 
	"Wu_Construction-Chinese-NonChinese-1991.pdf" [up to CONSTRUCTION OF CHINESE IDENTITY OVERSEAS]
	* Write one (1) question based on the reading
	* Students in two teams
	* Each group up to the front to answer questions from the other group

Notes
	- The Chinese concept of "Chinese" is complex 
	- The modern cultural concept of "Chinese," for example, must be understood in the context of 	
	China's recent political history
		1) China needed a modern identity to cope with conditions created by China's
	confrontation with the Western world where concepts of state, citizen are foreign
		2) the identity needs to acknowledge the traditional view of being at the center of
	existence. Chinese have viewed themselves as being at the center, surrounded by
	culturally inferior barbarians at the periphery.
	- Chinese have had an anthropocentric view is based on a deep-rooted sense of belonging to
	a unified civilization that boasts several thousands of years of uninterrupted history
	- Two pieces to Chinese identity 
		1) they feel a connectedness with the fate of China as a nation.
		2) they feel a sense of fulfillment, of being the bearers of a cultural heritage handed down 
		from their ancestors
	- Chinese are the Han, who ultimately absorbed the "barbarians". Because the Han had absorbed people of all languages, customs, and racial and ethnic origins; the meanings of being Chinese in the sense of ethnicity, culture, citizenship, or residence were almost never addressed. Al are Han.
	
	- By the early twentieth century this concept of a "Chinese people" included four major non-Chinese races, descendants of what were formerly referred to as barbarians: the Man (Manchus), the
Meng (Mongolians), the Hui (ethnic groups of Islamic faith in northwestern China), and the Zang (Tibetans)

	-the existence of a superior Chinese culture is, at best, a myth. The Chinese people and
Chinese culture have been constantly amalgamating, restructuring, reinventing, and reinterpreting themselves








