
###########################
The World Order in Crisis
by Sir Mark Lyall Grant in,
Horizons: Journal of International Relations and Sustainable Development, 
No. 21 (SUMMER 2022), pp. 124-133

Center for International Relations
and Sustainable Development
###########################

In May 2022, George Soros suggested that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine might be the start of World War III. I think that this is an exaggerated fear, but the invasion has certainly highlighted the fact that the current world order is under very serious threat. 

It is worth recalling what Western countries mean by the rules-based international order. In the 1940s and 1950s, the victors of World War II—in practice, primarily the United States and the United Kingdom—founded new multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations, NATO, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (the precursor to the WTO), the International Monetary Fund, and the World Bank. They also established regulatory regimes and standards for almost all international transactions from telecommunications and civil aviation to the environment and disarmament. Both the institutions and the norms were designed to reflect a liberal vision, based on Western values of open trade, the rule of law, and human rights. This international system was underpinned by American leadership and a brand of liberal, free trade economics that became known as the ‘Washington Consensus.’

Throughout the 40-odd years of the Cold War, the Soviet Union stayed somewhat aloof from this international order, unwilling to participate fully, but unable to seriously challenge it. Instead, it preferred to operate bilaterally when it was in its interest to do so, such as in nuclear arms limitation talks with the United States.

Then, in 1989, the end of the Cold War ushered in a 20-year golden era for the liberal international order. Eastern Europe became free and democratic. The UN Security Council had a new lease of life, mandating a large number of peacekeeping missions around the world, aimed at tackling conflicts. Similarly, the International Criminal Court (ICC) was established, as was the Human Rights Council. Women’s rights and LGBT rights were advanced; the Arms Trade Treaty was broadly agreed upon and conventions on chemical weapons and cluster munitions were signed. In addition, concepts such as Responsibility to Protect (R2P) and humanitarian intervention were proposed.

It is striking that every single one of these institutional and normative initiatives came from the West; and all of them went in a more liberal, rights-based direction.


-------------

...the financial crisis of 2008 undermined the Global South’s faith in capitalism and the competence of Western leaders to manage the effects of globalization. The Washington Consensus, which had long served as the gold standard on economic reform, was collapsing before our eyes

More fundamentally still, geopolitical  shifts — particularly the rise of China—weakened international support for the previous liberal order. China’s brand of ‘market authoritarianism’ became more widely admired and occasionally imitated.

China’s dramatic economic rise certainly increased its right and ability to help set the international agenda, and the West has undoubtedly been slow in finding ways to accommodate these geopolitical shifts. But Chinese President Xi Jinping’s ambitions have grown over the last few years from simply seeking a bigger role in the existing international governance system to becoming the pole of attraction for a somewhat different system, based on very different values to the international order that the West had become used to since World War II. China’s increasing regional assertiveness in recent years—towards Hong Kong, Taiwan, the South China sea, and even India—reflects Xi’s confidence that the old order is changing and that old norms can be challenged and sometimes ignored

At the same time, we have seen greater authoritarianism in every region of the world, in countries as diverse as Egypt, Thailand, Turkey, Brazil, the Philippines, Hungary, and India. Indeed, Freedom House
has documented 16 consecutive years of democratic decline, with 75 percent of the world’s population now living in countries that are becoming less democratic than they were.

And significantly, during this critical period, the liberal order’s traditional champion, the United States, has done little to defend or promote it. U.S. President Donald Trump of course did not believe in the rules-based order at all, arguing that it worked against American interests. He took a number of policy steps that actively undermined multilateralism, including pulling the United States out of the Paris Climate Agreement, the Iran nuclear deal, and the Trans-Pacific Partnership. 

The international order that has done so much to prevent a World War III—and facilitated increased global prosperity over the last 75 years—is now under serious threat, without any clarity about what might take its place. Far from the ‘end of history,’ as Francis Fukuyama put it 30 years ago, we are entering a period of considerable uncertainty in which the ultimate triumph of democratic politics and liberal economics cannot be taken for granted.


----------------------

There is, however, some hope for the current world order. Nearly three quarters of the world’s sovereign countries voted at the UN against Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Admittedly, that three quarters represents less than half the world’s population. Still, a majority of countries have populations of less than 10 million—all the more reason to recognize the risks that a breakdown of the rules-based international order would bring. Many small states dread a return of a ‘law of the jungle’ environment, where might is right. The West’s strong response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has undoubtedly pushed Russia closer to China. But the Russia-China relationship seems more a temporary alignment than a deep or sustainable alliance. China has offered Russia some rhetorical support in face of its invasion of Ukraine, even though it appears that Putin did not warn China’s President Xi Jinping of his intentions in advance. Given its own attachment to the principles of territorial integrity and non-interference, China was not willing to vote in support of Russia at the UN and has not (so far at least) provided Russia with any meaningful practical support, let alone weapons systems. Whereas a quick Russian military victory might have been welcomed in Beijing, this long drawn-out conflict, with the strong and united Western response that it has provoked, is proving much less appealing for China, not least in the context of its own ambitions for Taiwan.

More fundamentally, the West still dominates the most important soft power tools. Europe and America might look weak and divided, but their GDP per capita is still three or four times that of China. Tellingly, these remain the regions of the world where many people from other countries want to live—as the migration flows continue to show. You do not have to be an advocate of Friedrich Hegel’s theory of inevitable human rogression towards greater freedom to believe that the way countries like China, Russia and other autocratic states treat their citizens is not sustainable over the longer term. 

But if the West attaches importance to a liberal international order and the democratic values of freedom and justice that underpin it, then it will have to use all of its political and diplomatic skills to defend that order—while at the same time working to reshape and adapt the liberal order to the shifting geopolitics of the twenty-first century. Iraq, Syria, and Afghanistan—not to mention Vietnam and Cuba—have all shown that this cannot be achieved by military force. It can only be achieved by the force of superior ideas and positive example.


------------------------------

The Nation State in Peril?
The sovereign nation state is the essential building block of the current international order. The mul-tilateral governance system, headed by the United Nations, is inter-governmental and depends on the willing participation of individual countries.

The nation state finds itself under huge strategic strain. 

The concept of individual sovereign nation states forming the bedrock of international interaction, and thus the context for modern diplomacy and international governance, dates from the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648. It is therefore less than 400 years old—a relatively short period in historical terms. Consider for a moment some of the external and internal pressures on today’s nation states and their governments.

Regionalism. Countries are increasingly banding together with their neighbors to bolster their security, increase their international clout or more effectively to tackle cross-border challenges. Yet such regional groupings involve, at the very least, a dilution of individual countries’ sovereignty.

Localism. Many communities want more decisions to be taken at levels below that of central government, closer to the people.  A striking statistic which highlights this tension is that California has sued the federal government in Washington more than 100 times in the last three years!

Multinational corporations. Multinational corporationsarguably pose an even greater threat to national governments. By definition, they operate beyond national borders. And, in terms of capitalization, the biggest tech companies are now richer than most countries, with four of them—Apple, Microsoft, Alphabet, and Amazon [and now Space X} ranked in the top 20 richest entities in the world. Moreover, they are not just richer. In an era when data is power, these companies collect more data on individuals than many governments. And in a world where capital is mobile, governments find it very dficult to tax the companies on profits made in their respective countries.

The Internet and artificial intelligence. If multinational companies pose a threat to the economic autonomy of national governments, the Internet,and increasingly artificial intelligence, poses a more political one. There was a time, not long ago, when governments would expect to be ‘the first to know.’ No longer. Now, more autocratic governments struggle to control the spread of information, while more liberal governments find themselves vulnerable to misinformation campaigns and political agendas promoted on social media platforms.

Cryptocurrencies. Moreover, the internet has facilitated a challenge to one of the core traditional attributes of a sovereign state—its monopoly of currency. Cryptocurrencies are specifically designed to evade the oversight of, and regulation by, national governments. Some countries, like India and China, have tried to ban the use of cryptocurrencies altogether. Others, like El Salvador and Panama, have gone in the opposite direction and accepted crypto as legal tender. In either case, it poses a major risk to the governments’ ability to control their financial economy.

----------------------------------

[What's Next?]
A ...common argument is...that we are entering a period of even greater nationalism, where adherence to the nation state takes priority over wider cooperation. President Trump’s slogans ‘Make America Great Again’ and ‘America First’ were populist expressions of that sentiment. And Ukraine’s heroic and determined defense of its newly regained national sovereignty against a much stronger enemy surely demonstrates the enduring power of the nation state, rather than its imminent collapse. T

The alternative theory, however—that we are experiencing the last violent spasms of the nation state era—should not be entirely discounted. Certainly, I think that it would be unwise to assume that the current system of international governance, based as it is on the interaction between individual sovereign  countries, will inevitably continue unchanged into the next century.




