
#########
All HW 3P
#########




** HW_10 [Due:25 Mar 2026]	
--- Task 1
Define the following terms/acronyms:
	perceptron
	artificial neural network
	large language model (LLM)
	LLM supervised learning 
	LLM unsupervised learning
	LLM reinforcement learning with human feedback (RLHF)
	
	emergence
	
	application programmer interface (API)
	Python
	token (as used in AI)
	prompt engineering
	machine translation with post editing (MTPE)
	bilingual evaluation understudy (BLEU)
	metric for evaluation of translation with explicit ordering (METEOR)

--- Task 2
Read "01_Shanahan_TalkingAboutLLMs.pdf"
	Intro
	What LLMs Do and How They Work
	Humans and LLMs Compared
	Do LLMs Really Know Anything?
	What about Emergence?

Answer the following questions:
	1. AI agents are "unreasonably" effective (i.e, these models have surprised everyone on the power of big data). What are the three ways that AI models have shown to be remarkable?
	2. What is the danger of anthropomorphizing AI agents?
	3. Shanahan states, "A human infant is born into a community of language users with which it shares a world." How is this fundamentally different from AI agents?
	4. How, exactly, do bare-bones LLMs work?
	5. Explain the idea of communicative intent. Why don't AI agents have this (yet)?
	6. LLMs must be embedded in a larger system that allows for structured prompts of various kinds that orient the LLM. Why?
	7. Current AI agents are impressive because developers have turned LLMs into question-answering systems by embedding them in a larger system and using prompt engineering to elicit the required behavior. What are two important take-aways from this phenomenon?
	8. What do bare-bones LLMs actually know?
	9.Shanahan notes, "the overriding lesson of recent progress in LLMs is that extraordinary and unexpected capabilities emerge when big enough models are trained on very large quantities of textual data." Given this reality, do you think AI agents could become conscious?
	
	
--- Task 3
Read Chapters 9, 10 and 11 of "Bless Me, Ultima." Select and answer four (4) questions from the list of questions for each chapter. The questions can be found in the document, "UTECA_StudyGuide_Bless-Me-Ultima.txt. Be sure to format your answers correctly (see Marron_StyleGuide_25-3.pdf).





**HW_09 [Due: 18 Mar 2026]	
--- Task 1
Herman Daly vehemently opposes unilateral free trade. Daly defines his criticisms in, "The Perils of Free Trade" published in Scientific American in 1993 (06_Daly_Perils-of-Free-Trade.pdf). Answer the questions below based on Daly's paper. You do need to write the question.

	12. Real wages for US nonsupervisory workers (i.e., employees) who make up about 80% of the US work force, have fallen 17 percent between 1973 and 1990. [Note: The Economic Policy Institute notes that while overall productivity in the US economy grew significantly from 1973 to 2013, the hourly compensation of production and nonsupervisory workers rose only 9%, compared to a 74% increase in productivity. This divergence between productivity growth and worker compensation is a key trend. In the decades following World War II, wages for the vast majority of workers grew roughly in line with productivity, but this changed after 1973. In large measure, the backlash from this trend brought Trump to office.] According to Daly, what is the real reason that US wages have fallen? Do you think a binding, international legal system would help or hurt international trade? 
	13. Daly delivers a scathing rebuke of NAFTA (the now expired North American Free Trade Agreement) with regards to corn production in Mexico. What does he say? Were his predictions accurate? [Note: The policies of Earl Butz, Secretary of Agriculture under Presidents Nixon and Ford destroyed the American family farm.]
	14. Daly argues that "the legitimate case for restrictions on labor immigration is therefore easily extended to restrictions on capital emigration." What does this mean?
	15. Like Steffen et al., Daly also uses a systems approach in defining the economy in relation to the biosphere. Look at the diagram on p.4. How does the definition of economy differ between neoclassical and steady-state (ecological) economics?
	16. Daly states that when confronted with the real problems created by free trade (i.e., resource allocation problems, standards-lowering problems, absolute competitive advantage problems, biosphere degradation problems, etc), neoliberal economists shrug their shoulders and say that "growth" will fix all the problems. What is meant by here by "growth"? And why is this response anything but a cure for the problems? (In fact, Daly points out that such a cure is impossible.)
	17. Who are the real beneficiaries of free trade? Why?
	18. How is a steady-state economy analogous to an organism? 
	19. "Once upon a time..." is the start of the fairy tale that neoliberal economists still hold on to; namely, that man-made and natural capital are good substitutes for one another. What is the current reality, as beautifully stated by Daly in terms of fishing boats and saw mills?
	20. As in so many things, scale matters. Why is scale important in considering past and future economic impacts to the biosphere?
	21. What is Daly's definition of development? Would Sen agree with him?
	22. Finally, Daly notes that "by spatially separating the costs and benefits of environmental exploitation, international [free] trade makes them harder to compare." Without intervention, what does Daly see as the inexorable outcome of this failure in cost accounting?

--- Task 2
Read Chapter 6, Chapter 7, and Chapter 8 of "Bless Me, Ultima." Select and answer four (4) questions from the list of questions for each chapter. The questions can be found in the document, "UTECA_StudyGuide_Bless-Me-Ultima.txt. Be sure to format your answers correctly (see Marron_StyleGuide_25-3.pdf).



#########
All HW 2P
########

**HW_08 [Due: 11 Mar 2026]	
--- Task 1
While David Ricardo is credited with the concept of free trade, as espoused through his ideas of comparative advantage, it was Milton Friedman who extended and polished the concept. Friedman and the Chicago School of Economics have championed the current neoliberal policies of unilateral free trade. Herman Daly vehemently opposes unilateral free trade. Daly defines his criticisms in, "The Perils of Free Trade" published in Scientific American in 1993 (06_Daly_Perils-of-Free-Trade.pdf). Answer the questions below based on Daly's paper. You do need to write the question.

	1. Daly notes that, at the time of writing the article, most if not all economists endorsed the idea of free trade; that is, free trade being a presumed good unless proven otherwise. Briefly, what is meant by the term, free trade? What is Daly's name for free trade?
	2. How did Keynes see the relationship between national and international production?
	3. What is the general economic argument used to promote free trade? From Daly's perspective what is the main flaw in this argument?
	4. Daly calls free traders to task for aggrandizing mathematical theories over ground-truthing. What does he mean by this?
	5. What is the modern reality of capital that undermines and invalidates a fundamental premise of Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage?
	6. Daly notes that "for trade to be mutually beneficial, the gains must not be offset by higher liabilities." What are two obvious liabilities pointed out by Daly?
	7. Why can the specialization required of free trade reduce a nation's range of occupational choices?
	8. Again Daly calls free traders to task but this time for fundamental negligence. He notes that "the arguments for free trade run afoul of the three basic goals of all economic policies: the efficient allocation of resources, the fair distribution of resources and the maintenance of a sustainable scale of resource use." Explain how free trade violates each one of these three basic economic goals.
	9. Free trade seems to fly under the banner, "Privatize the profits and externalize the costs." What does this slogan mean?
	10. How can tariffs be used positively?
	11. Do you think a binding, international legal system would help or hurt international trade?

--- Task 2
Read Chapter 3, Chapter 4, and Chapter 5 of "Bless Me, Ultima." Select and answer just four (4) questions from the list of questions for each chapter. The questions can be found in the document, "UTECA_StudyGuide_Bless-Me-Ultima.txt. Be sure to format your answers correctly (see Marron_StyleGuide_25-3.pdf).

--- Task 3
Study Guide for Exam 2P [Do not turn in as homework]

T1 The axioms and corollaries of standard economics
    1. According to economics, what is scarce?
    2. Do you agree with economics’ axiom of scarcity?
    3. Briefly explain why opportunity cost results from choice.

T2 The modern World Order
    1. Briefly explain what were the intentions of the US and European Allies for creating the World Order 
    after WWII.
    2. Briefly explain what events and pressures have contributed, and are currently contributing, to the 
    collapse of the World Order
    3. Briefly state your perspective on the state of the current and the future world order.
	
T3 Amartya Sen's thoughts on freedoms, unfreedoms, and development
    1. Sen notes that "unfreedoms" rob individuals of agency and therefore contribute to miseries of one 
    kind or another. List three (3) broad categories of unfreedoms and in each case briefly explain why 
    agency is diminished.
    2. List three (3) distinct types of freedoms that are fundamental for development. and briefly explain 
    why these freedoms are synergistic.
    3. Sen argues that development must have a broader definition than simply economic enhancement. What is 
    Sen's definition of development?

T4 Herman Daly's, "The Perils of Free Trade"
    1. Briefly, what is meant by the term, free trade?
    2. What is the modern reality of capital that undermines and invalidates a fundamental premise of 
    Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage?
    3. Free trade seems to fly under the banner, "Privatize the profits and externalize the costs." What 
    does this slogan mean?
    4. Who are the real beneficiaries of free trade? Why?
    5. Neoliberal economists have neglected the reality of the relationship between the economy and the 
    biosphere. How is a steady-state economy analogous to an organism and why is a steady-state economy 
    absolutely required for sustainability?
    6. Do you think a binding, international legal system that requires corporate full cost accounting would 
    fix the problems created by free trade?

T5 Briefly summarize the novel, "Bless Me, Ultima" up through Chapter 5.


HW_07 [Due: 04 Mar 2026]	
--- Task 1
Read the excerpt (Preface and Introduction) from Amartya Sen's, "Freedom as Development" and answer the following questions,
	1. Sen notes that "unfreedoms" rob individuals of agency and therefore contribute to miseries of one kind or another. List three (3) broad categories of unfreedoms.
	2. Sen argues that development must have a broader definition than simply economic enhancement. What is Sen's definition of development?
	3. According to Sen, what are the five (5) distinct types of freedoms and why are they synergistic? 
	4. Does Sen commend or chastise the role of markets?

--- Task 2
Read Chapter 1 and Chapter 2 of "Bless Me, Ultima" and answer the following questions:
	i)  Answer all of the questions from Chapter 1
	ii) Answer five (of the 13) questions from Chapter 2. Your can choose which questions to answer.

Questions, vocab, and chapter summaries for "Bless Me, Ultima" can be found in the document, "UTECA_StudyGuide_Bless-Me-Ultima.txt." Organize your responses to the questions above using Marron_English-VIII-StyleGuide.pdf.



** HW_06  [Due: 25 Feb 2026]	
--- Task 1
Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney's speech is provocative in its assessment of the current world order.
After reading the speech, do the following:
	1) Provide an annotated list of the main points of Carney's speech.
	2) Answer the question, What is your assessment of Carney's speech?
	
--- Task 2 (counts double)
Write a ~three-page critique of "Charlotte's Web." Use the Chesapeake College guide to organize your document and present your critique in the format given in Marron_English-VIII-StyleGuide.pdf. Please note that the questions and statements under each section are for guidance only. Do not include the questions or the statements in your critique.



** HW_05 [Due: 18 Feb 2026]	
--- Task 1
Translate the following two axioms from standard economics into Spanish:

Axiom 1: As a society, our resources?land, labor, and capital?are insufficient to produce all the  goods and services we might desire. In other words, society faces a scarcity of resources.

Axiom 2: All production carries an opportunity cost: To produce more of one thing, society must shift resources away from producing something else. ?There is no such thing as a free lunch.?

--- Task 2
Read the excerpt from "The World Order in Crisis" by Sir Mark Lyall Grant [01_Grant_World-Order-in-Crisis_2022.txt] and 
	a. Write a brief summary of the excerpt, and
	b. Write a brief statement giving your perspective on the state of the current and the future world 
	order.
	
--- Task 3
Read Chapters XVII thru XXII of "Charlotte's Web." Be prepared to contribute next week to a Socratic-style seminar that focuses on these chapters. In the seminar we will
	i) 	analyze highlights and important events as plot elements, 
	ii) 	analyze characters and their motivations,
	iii) evaluate the stylistic elements used by the author, and 
	iv) 	critique the author's choices and style.

Ultimately, you will write a full critique of this novel.
	

#########
All HW 1P
########

**HW_04 [Due: 11 Feb 2026]	
--- Task 1
Provide English definitions and a Spanish word translation for all of the words in the document, Vocab_03.txt: a list of words from the middle part of Charlotte's Web.

--- Task 2
Read Chapters XII thru XVI of "Charlotte's Web." Be prepared to contribute next week to a Socratic-style seminar that focuses on these chapters. In the seminar we will
	i) 	analyze highlights and important events as plot elements, 
	ii) 	analyze characters and their motivations,
	iii) evaluate the stylistic elements used by the author, and 
	iv) 	critique the author's choices and style.

Ultimately, you will write a full critique of this novel.

--- Task 3
Study Guide for 1P exam. You should be able to:
* Compare and contrast Spanish, English, and Chinese (briefly)
* Evaluate the utility of reducing language into standard linguistic elements (i.e., Konrod)
* Define Zip's Law and explain why it is useful
* Define what generative text models are and very roughly, what they can do
* Summarize the paper on planetary thresholds and global warmimg by Steffen et. al.
* Read and evaluate new information regarding perspectives on academic writing
* Summarize the novel, "Charlotte's Web" up through Chapter XVI in about two+ paragraphs
* Select five (5) "science" words from Vocab_01.txt and five (5) "literature" words from Vocab_02.txt and/or Vocab_03.txt. Memorize these words and be prepared to provide English definitions and a Spanish translation on the exam



**HW_03 HW_03 [Due: 04 Feb 2026]	
--- Task 1
Geoffrey K Pullum has written a rather scathing critique of Strunk and White's classic, "The Elements of Style" (see "The Land of the Free and The Elements of Style", English Today 102 Vol. 26, No. 2, June 2010). Provide a critique of Pullum's critique. Use the Chesapeake College guide to organize your document and present your critique in the following format as defined in the document, "Marron_English-VIII-StyleGuide.pdf". The basic outline is as follows:

	Task 1: A Critique of G. Pullum's, "Land of the Free"

Introduction					

Evaluation of Pullum's Criticisms		
	* Pullum Criticism #1	
	* Pullum Criticism #2	
		
Conclusions						


--- Task 2
Provide English definitions and a Spanish word translation for all of the words in the document, Vocab_02.txt: a list of words from the first part of Charlotte's Web.


--- Task 3
Read Chapters VII through XI of "Charlotte's Web." Be prepared to contribute next week to a Socratic-style seminar that focuses on these chapters. In the seminar we will
	i) 	analyze highlights and important events as plot elements, 
	ii) 	analyze characters and their motivations,
	iii) evaluate the stylistic elements used by the author, and 
	iv) 	critique the author's choices and style.

Ultimately, you will write a full critique of this novel.

NB. Marron's modified APA format applies to all homework assignments (See Marron_English-VIII-StyleGuide.pdf in Reference Docs folder). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date, unless duly noted. Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.



**HW_02 [Due: 28 Jan 2026]	
--- Task 1
With reference to the readings on communication and information theory (documents 02a, 02b, and 02c in the 1P folder) and our class discussions, please answer the following questions:

	1. How does Claude Shannon view the process of communication?
	2. In Indo-European languages, a message can be defined as a sequence of words where each word has a 
	frequency or probability of occurrence. Shannon discovered a way to measure the information content 
	of a string of words (message). Explain why completely redundtant messages or completely random 
	messages contain virtually no information.
	3. Based on information theory, what types of messages contain the maximum amount of information?
	4. What is Zipf's Law?
	5. Give an example of a generative model for languages.
	
--- Task 2
Read the paper, "Trajectories of the Earth System in the Anthropocene" (03_Steffen-etal_Trajectories-Earth-System-in-the-Anthropocene). By focusing on the Abstract, Introduction, and Conclusions sections of the paper, write a one+-paragraph summary of the entire paper in English.


--- Task 3
Provide English definitions and a Spanish word translation for all of the words in the document, Vocab_01.txt: a list of 72 words from Readings 01, 02, 03.


--- Task 4
Read Chapters I through VI of "Charlotte's Web." Be prepared to contribute next week to a Socratic-style seminar that focuses on these chapters. In the seminar we will:

	i) 	analyze highlights and important events as plot elements, 
	ii) 	analyze characters and their motivations 
		[Character maps that include their traits, relationships, and key events]
	iii) evaluate the stylistic elements used by the author (genre), and 
	iv) 	critique the author's choices and style

Ultimately, you will write a full critique of this novel.

NB. Marron's modified APA format applies to all homework assignments (See Marron_English-VIII-StyleGuide.pdf in Reference Docs folder). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date, unless duly noted. Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.



** HW_01 [Due: 22 Jan 2026]
--- Task 1
Read the following excerpt from Konrod's,"Language Research in Marketing" (pp. 5-11):
	
	  1. Introduction
	  2. The Components of Language
		 2.1 Phonetics (Sounds)
		 2.2 Morphology and Semantics (The Structure and Meaning of Words)
		 2.3 Syntax and Grammar (Sentence Structure)
		 2.4 Discourse (Text)
		 2.5 Pragmatics (Use)
		 2.6 Cross Cultural Linguistics and Sociolinguistics

Write a summary of Konrod's excerpt in English and translate the summary into Spanish. Be prepared to discuss your summary in class.

--- Task 2
Reflect on the concept of language (its function, its components, its transmittal, etc). Compare and contrast Spanish, English and Chinese. What strikes you as fundamnetal similarities and differences between these three languages?  Frame your responses with reference to the concept of language and be prepared to discuss your responses in class.


--- Task 3
Work through the complete Study Guide in R. Murphy's, "English Grammar in Use". List every section with which you may need review. The Study Guide can be found on p. 326. The key to the Study Guide is given on p. 372.


NB.
For this assignment and for all subsequent written assignments in this class (unless duly noted), we will use a modified, APA formatting style. Specifically, documents will be:
	* Single-spaced
	* 0.5 inch margins (left and right)
	* 12-point Times New Roman font
	* print double-sided if possible
References, if needed, in a standard format (eg, APA)
(See Marron_English-VIII-StyleGuide.pdf in Reference Docs folder)
	
Assignments always must be printed and submitted in class (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.
