							LESSON PLAN  (150 min)

Docente:		Bruce D. Marron
Ciclo: 		26-1
Materia: 		Terminología Especializada en Jurídica
Curso:		IT0732
Licenciatura: 	Interpretación y Traducción
Grupo:		7A

###########################
HW_12 [Due: 09 Dec 2025]	<== no deliverable

--- Task 1
Complete HW_011 and work thru the Study Guid for Exam 3P. Exam 3P will be an open book exam: you can use use HW_11. There is no deliverable for HW_12.

Exam 3P -- Open Book

T1
	1. Do you think lawyers should use AI agents in their work? Briefly explian.
	2. Do you think that lawyers violate client confidentiality when using AI agents? Briefly explain.
	3. What is the author's three-step plan for "he way forward"?
	3. Do you agree wwith the author's three-step plan?


T2
1. What is meant by the term, "responsibility gap" with regards to AI?
2. Define the Culpability Gap and briefly explain why it matters.
3. Define the Moral Accountability Gap and briefly explain why it matters.
4. Define the Public Accountability Gap and briefly explain why it matters.
5. Define the Active Responsibility Gap and briefly explain why it matters.
6. What is the problem with "deflationist" solutions to AI responsibility gaps?
7. What is the problem with “technical solutionism” with respect to to AI responsibility gaps?
8. What is the problem with “legal solutionism” with respect to to AI responsibility gaps?
9. Briefly describe the authors' integrated solution to AI responsibility known as Meaningful Human Control (MHC).


T3
	Why are LLMs called “large language models”?
	What is a perceptron and how (basically) does it function?
	What is it that LLMs actually do?
	Do you consider AI a dangerous technology? Explian.

T4
	Drones and privacy

NB. Marron's modified APA format applies (see Class Materials in Teams). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.

#########
Today
#########

---- Open 

		"Making judgments about whether a person is morally responsible for their behavior, and holding others and ourselves responsible for actions and the consequences of actions, is a fundamental and familiar part of our moral practices and our interpersonal relationships."
		--- Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Moral Responsibility
		(https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/moral-responsibility/ accessed on 22 Nov 2025)
		
		
		We're making this analogy that AI is the new electricity. Electricity transformed industries: agriculture, 
	transportation, communication, manufacturing.
				--- Andrew Ng 
			
			
	I think that, hundreds of years from now, if people invent a technology that we haven't heard of yet, maybe 
	a computer could turn evil. But the future is so uncertain. I don't know what's going to happen five years 
	from now. The reason I say that I don't worry about AI turning evil is the same reason I don't worry about 
	overpopulation on Mars. 
				--- Andrew Ng
			(founder of DeepLearning.AI, Chairman and co-founder of Coursera, Adjunct Professor at 
			Stanford University)


---- Review
-- Terzidou, "Generative AI systems in legal practice offering quality legal services while upholding legal ethics"
International Journal of Law in Context (2025), 21, 431–452

two ethical duties ==> ‘What is the impact of the use of generative AI systems by lawyers on the ethical duties of
competence and confidentiality?
The increasing use of generative AI systems by lawyers is raising several questions relating to the ethical duties of competence and confidentiality.
	1. On the one hand, lawyers need to stay up to date on knowledge or skills that render them more efficient and effective in the representation of their clients, including digital literacy skills. 
	2. On the other hand, lawyers risk disclosing their clients’ confidential data to third parties – for example, by inserting confidential data when prompting generative AI systems or by giving them access to files containing confidential data.

ChatGPT is known for ‘hallucinating’ – in other words, misleading users by presenting inaccurate outputs as factual and reliable information

The way forward would involve a client-centric approach, where the use of generative AI systems by lawyers would depend on the interest of clients in high quality legal services. Bar Associations must adopt rules, in the form of comments or guidelines, that target three aspects of
client-centricity. 
	First, the rules should require the valid consent of clients for the processing of their confidential data through generative AI systems. 
	Second, the rules should demand the inclusion of specific clauses on the protection of clients’ confidential data in the contracts signed between lawyers and providers of generative AI systems. 
	Third, the rules must promote life-long learning opportunities on the use of generative AI systems, so lawyers can remain competent while representing their clients and respectful of the confidentiality of their clients’ information.



**  AI and Responsibility

-- What is AI?
	excerpt from my prezy


-- AI 2027 Report
The AI alignment problem (in the story) is a moral accountability problem.







---- New

** International Law

FINISH THIS
-- Santoni de Sio and Mecacci in Philosophy & Technology (2021) 34:1057–1084
"Four Responsibility Gaps with Artificial Intelligence: Why they Matter and How to Address them"

---- The Problem Gaps in Responsibility with AI -------------------------------------------
Gaps appear in i) passive responsibility or the moral and legal consequences (human) agents must face in case something goes wrong. And gaps appear in ii) active responsibility or gaps in the goals, values, and legal norms that (human) agents (such as engineers) are supposed to promote and comply with, as well as the consequences they need to prevent and avoid (eg, the legal duty to provide high standards of safety).
	
1. Culpability Gap -- the risk that no human agent might be legitimately blamed or held culpable for the unwanted outcomes of actions mediated by AI systems
		
	When things go wrong and important interests or rights such as physical integrity or life are infringed on, we, as victims and 4.  Active Responsibility Gap as society, not only want to understand what happened but why. We also want to know whether the harm was the result of someone’s wrong behaviour, and if it turns out that the  wrong behaviour is one for which there is no justification or excuse, we want the author to be condemned, sanctioned, or 
even punished for their behaviour.
		
	[See p.6; the example of automated driving systems (ADS)]
		
	The use of AI and data-driven machin4.  Active Responsibility Gap e learning in decision-making importantly introduces a new element of technical opacity and lack of explainability that makes it more difficult for individual persons to satisfy the traditional conditions for moral and legal culpability:  intention, foreseeability, and control.
		
	The more that persons designing, regulating, and operating an AI system can legitimately (and possibly  systematically) avoid blame for their wrong behaviour, the less these (human) agents will be incentivised to prevent these wrong behaviours. In fact, they will arguably have less incentives to strive for a high(er) level of safety, awareness, attention, motivation, and skilfulness.
	
2. Moral Accountability Gap -- AI may make individual persons less able to understand, explain, and reflect upon their own and other (human) agents’ behaviour. Functional society has the expectation that people answer (at least some) why-questions from other persons.
	
	Why-questions do not necessarily have the intention of judging or blaming but possibly to just engage in a conversation and to better understand each other’s reasons and expectations. [Why were you  late at the appointment, why did you start taking guitar classes, why did you turn down that job  offer...?] This is the core of what it means to be a reflective person in society. In this sense, 4.  Active Responsibility Gap being accountable, unlike being culpable, is something to be desired rather than avoided insofar as it is a constitutive part of being able to reflect on one’s actions and to participate in meaningful social relations. It also helps  persons see events in the world as connected to their rational capacities and thereby supporting their sense of agency and responsibility.
	
	Moral accountability also has an instrumental value. The process of exchanging questions and reasons helps finding explanations for things that have happened, reinforces trust and social connections between (human) agents, and, by exposing persons to potential requests for explanation and justification, it also tends to reduce undesired behaviour by pushing persons to be more clearly aware of the impact of their actions on others and therefore motivated to prevent unwanted outcomes (and pot4.  Active Responsibility Gap ential culpability)
		
	Moral accountability may be blurred in different ways by the introduction of artificial intelligence. 
		First, in general and similar to what was observed above about culpability, AI contributes to the creation of a more complex chain of decision-making and action (the “problem of many hands”). AI may make it more difficult for individual agents to make sense  of the reasons why a certain decision was taken, what their role exactly was in the operation, and, in general, whose reasons and what reasoning were governing the system they are part of. 
		Second, data-driven machine (deep) learning, due to its intrinsic opacity, might make a system’s behaviour extra hard to understand and explain.
==>		Third, the whole process of technology development and production is arguably pervaded by an increasing pressure towards deploying proprietary technologies that, even when working through mechanisms accessible to their developers and programmers, are designed to be inaccessible to public scrutiny and the users themselves. Technology developers, driven by both the desire to minimise industrial espionage and maximise customers loyalty (by, e.g. binding them to their assistance network), will usually avoid sharing data and engineering insights. Thus, there is embedded difficulty for engineers and other (human) agents involved in the process of technological development to systematically discuss with one another their understanding of the goals, meaning, and results of the development process.
	
	[See example p. 9 a medical doctor using an AI-driven system for diagnosing]
	
	Ultimately, the moral accountability gap is the reduction of human agents’ capacity to make sense of – and explain to each other (ie to other humans) the “logic” of their behaviour, due to the mediation (ie the interposition) of opaque, unexplainable AI algorithms and complex autonomous systems and/or the lack of appropriate psychological, social incentives or institutional spaces that promote these explanations.


3. Public Accountability Gap -- Citizens not being able to get an explanation for decisions taken by public agencies, politicians, civil servants, and other human agents invested with a public function.

	Public accountability promotes democratic control (transparency) and limits abuses of power (corruption), but it also brings more effectiveness in the institutions. In fact, providing public administrators with information about their own functioning and forcing them to reflect on their successes and failures will eventually allow and encourage them and others to improve their future performances.

	AI-based decision-making is often difficult to understand and explain to human agents due to the different and sometimes inscrutable ways of AI operations: the so-called “black box” problem. But the introduction of AI in public administration has also created or aggravated organisational and legal black boxes in governmental institutions.
		First, development in information technologies is often outsourced to private parties or tech-giants, such as Google, who are not politically accountable and may not be willing to disclose critical information about the functioning of their systems. 
		Second, more generally, the work of the software engineers and data professionals in public organisations is usually not visible nor subject to public and legal scrutiny. 
		Finally, far more data are exchanged between many different public organisations than in the past. In  this way, the introduction of AI makes the “problem of many hands” more acute


4.  Active Responsibility Gap -- the risk that persons designing, using, and interacting with AI may not be sufficiently aware, capable, and/or motivated to see and act according to their moral obligations with respect to the behaviour of the systems they design, control, or use. In particular, this gap concerns the obligation to ensure that AI systems do not negatively impact the rights and interests of other persons and, ideally, ensure that such systems positively contribute to humanity's well-being.


----- Problems with Partial Fixes ---------------------------------------
Common approaches that have so far been taken towards addressing responsibility gaps but that fall short

1. “fatalists” ==> underestimate the extent of the responsibility gap; their focus is too limited.

2. “deflationists” ==> underestimate the novelty of the AI revolution and its implication for culpability attributions in morality (blameworthiness) and the law (liability); they also seem to underestimate the risks of gaps in the moral and political accountability of system designers as well as gaps in theirs and other (human) agents’ active responsibility for the behaviour of artificial intelligence.

3. “technical solutionism” ==> Promoters of “explainable AI” and other scientific and technological improvements tend to ignore the psychological, social, and political dimension of the interaction with AI, thereby running the risk of embracing some form of “technical solutionism” by which all the moral and social problems of human responsibility for the behaviour of artificial intelligence can be fixed simply by an improvement of the working of AI techniques.

4. “legal solutionism” ==> Lawyers and policy-makers proposing the revision of current legal liability regimes (including extension of strict and product liability regimes, and “electronic personhood”) may either underestimate the importance of maintaining some form of human moral responsibility on the behaviour of the artificial intelligence or recognise this need but without saying how moral and social practices – and not only legal rules – should change in order to govern a responsible transition to the use of AI. 


----- Integrated Solution: Meaningful Human Control ---------
The authors' solution is to promote a legally, ethically, and societally acceptable form of human control over AI systems. Their solution is called Meaningful Human Control (MHS).

MHC requires that two conditions be satisfied: “tracking” and “tracing”. These two conditions must describe, respectively, i) the nature of the human-machine control relation (alignment with human goals, values, and intentions) and ii) the operational features of the human-machine control relation required to maintain human responsibility on the system (alignment of the system with the capacities of human agents).

Tracking (i above) requires that the socio-technical system – i.e. the whole combination of technical, AI, human, and organisational elements – is designed to demonstrably respond to the relevant reasons of the relevant agents and to the relevant facts in the environment. Tracking requires the ALIGNMENT of the system with the values, reasons, and intentions of the relevant human agents.

Tracing (ii above) requires that the socio-technical system is designed so that for each of the (relevant) actions of the system, it is possible to identify AT LEAST ONE HUMAN AGENT along the chain of design, development, and use that possesses both (a) sufficient knowledge of the capabilities and limitations of the system and (b) sufficient moral awareness of, and capacity to comply with, her role as potential target of legitimate response for the behaviour of the system. Tracing requires the alignment of the system with the capacities of the relevant human agents. Tracing is an operational, causal notion of control – mainly adopted in scientific and technical domains – such that a technical system is under the control of a human agent when there is a reliable causal connection between the human agent and the machine’s behaviour.



-- Aerial Surveillance in the Digital Age: Drone-Related Privacy Concerns and the Protection of Other Human Rights
(04_aerial-surveillance-in-the-digital-age)






** Marron's Rules for Consultants
-------------------------------
	1. NEVER give your client a draft. Only release your ABSOLUTE BEST WORK. 
	Remember, "God is in the details." (if you must break this rule, watermark every page of every document with the word, DRAFT and state in the transmittal that the draft was per client request)

	2. Keep records of ALL client interactions (phone calls, email, casual conversations, etc. DOCUMENT EVERYTHING!)
	
	3. Archive, Archive, Archive!
	
	4. Be real but absolutely professional AT ALL TIMES.
	
	5. Written communications must ALWAYS be at the highest level of professionalism.


Transmittals, Deliverables, Cover Letters
------------------------------------------
A transmittal is a formal action. A transmittal is the act of sending your clinet your finished product. A transmittal includes:
	i) 	a transmittal letter; and
	ii) the deliverable(s) (your finished product)


The transmittal letter:
	+ a formal cover letter that accompanies a larger document or package, introducing the document and providing context or instructions for the recipient
	+ standard business letter format, with a clear and concise tone
	+ explanations, instructions, new info (as needed)
	+ "Do not hesitate to call..." statement
	+ "thank you (appreciation)" statement (as appropriate)


The Deliverable(s):
	+ Triple-edited for typos and for accuracy
	+ Attached to transmittal letter or drive address to file(s)




** Review for Exam 3P

** Final Exam


---- Work time


---- Coming Up




