#########
HW 3P
#########



#########
HW 2P
########
*** HW_08 [Due: 11 Nov 2025]
-- Task 1
Read/scan  the following two excerpts from Sir David MacKay's, "Information Theory, Inference, Learning Algorithms," 
	i)  MacKay_Sex.pdf
	ii) MacKay_CodeBreaking.pdf
Do your best to get the gist (main ideas) of each excerpt and write a very brief summary of each excerpt in English. 
--- Task 2
Define the following terms in English and give a Spanish equivalent term. Add any new words to your dictionary.
TERMS
	allele
	alpha, beta, gamma, delta
	bigram
	camouflaged
	catalyst
	code breaking
	conjecture
	constraint
	deleterious
	deterministic
	empirical
	emulate
	false-negative
	false-positive
	fitness (evolution)
	genome
	genotype
	logarithm
	mutation
	nucleotide
	permutation
	phenotype
	precursor
	probability
	progeny
	qualitative
	quantitative
	quantized
	recombination (genetics)
	statistics
	symmetry
	transcription (genetics)
	translation (genetics)
	trigram
--- Task 3. Study for Exam 2P
Study Guide
-----------
1. Be able to 
	* Explain the difference and similarity between science and engineering
    	* List three ethical challenges of socially responsible science
    	* express your opinion scientists and engineers have a moral or ethical responsibility 
	
2. Be able to explain the concept of ‘wicked problems’ and how such problems differ from the problems of ‘normal science’

3. Be able to translate an excerpt from Semiconductores como Proyecto Nacional del Tecnológico Nacional de México (08...pdf) into English

4. Be able to define SOPs and explain why they are used.

5. Be able to translate an excerpt from EPA Guidance for SOPs into Spanish.

6 and 7. Provide definitions of words 

from Steffen et al. (2018) - Trajectories of the Earth System in the Anthropocene (01...pdf)
Anthropocene
anthropogenic
bifurcation
decarbonization
self-reinforcing feedback loop
oscillations
tipping point

from Poggio et al. (2025) - The Great Wave: Evidence of a large-scale vertical corrugation propagating outwards in the Galactic disc (02....pdf)
accretion
heliocentric
Occam's razor
parsec

from Paniagua and Elvira (2010) -Deslizamiento de un talud en el Poniente de la ciudad de México  (03....pdf)
anclaje
arena pumítica
estratigráfico
geotécnica
pluvial

from Tao et al. (2025) - Ultrabroadband on-chip photonics for full-spectrum wireless communications (09....pdf)
amplitude
bit
byte
calibration
electromagnetic
gigabyte (Gb)
photon
schematic
spectrum
synergistic
ubiquitous

	
NB. Marron's modified APA format applies (see Class Materials in Teams). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.


*** HW_07 [Due: 04 Nov 2025]
-- Task 1
Translate the following excerpt into Spanish:
	EXCERPTS_P2_EPA_Guidance-for-SOPs.txt
-- Task 2
Translate the following excerpt into English:
	EXCERPTS_P1_Semiconductores-Tecnológico-Nacional-México.txt
---Task 3
From Ultrabroadband on-chip photonics for full-spectrum wireless communications "09_Nature_6G_2025.pdf" provide a definition in English and an equivalent word in Spanish for the following words:
accumulate
adaptability
adversely
affiliation
algorithm
allocation
amplifier
amplitude
bandwidth
benchmark
binary
bit
broadband
byte
calibration
circuitry
coherent
constraint
decibels (dB)
deteriorate
dielectric
discrete (mathematics)
dispersion
distortion
dynamic
electromagnetic
fine-tune
fluctuation
frequency
gigabyte (Gb)
gigahertz (GHz)
homogeneous
heterogeneous
holographic
imperfection
integrate
interference
intrinsically
jammed (signal)
lithography
modulation (physics)
optimize
orthogonal
peripheral
photon
plasma
potential (electrical)
propagate (physics)
quantum
reconfigure
resonance (physics)
ripples
schematic
seamlessly
spectrum
stability
stringent
suppress
synchronous
synergistic
topological
ubiquitous
unprecedented
voltage
wavelength

From "08_Semiconductores-Tecnológico-Nacional-México.pdf" provide a definition in Spanish and an equivalent in English for the following words:
actuadores
aeroespacial
ambiental
analógico
arseniuro de galio (GaAs)
controladores
cuántica
infraestructura
Ley CHIPS y Ciencia de Estados Unidos
nitruro de galio (GaN)
semiconductor
superconductores

NB. Marron's modified APA format applies (see Class Materials in Teams). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.



*** HW_06 [Due: 28 Oct 2025]
-- Task 1
In his paper, "The Ethical Challenges of Socially Responsible Science." David B. Resnik sets out some of the ethical dilemmas for scientists and offers some recommendations. Answer the following questions related to Resnik's paper:
	1. Present two (2) "striking examples of scientists who demonstrated a strong commitment to 
	social responsibility." Explain.
	
	2. How is the "current consensus concerning the social responsibilities of scientists ... in 
	sharp  contrast to the opinion that prevailed several decades ago?"
	
	3. Do you think that science should be "value-free"? Does Resnik think so? Explain why or why 
	not.
	
	4. Resnik states that, "Rudner (1953) argued that scientists must make value judgments when 
	they accept or reject hypotheses, because the amount of evidence needed to accept a hypothesis 
	depends on the consequences of accepting it." What does this mean?
	
	5. How might values "operate at a conscious or subconscious level"?
	
	6. What does Resnik mean by "value-neutrality”? How does it apply to working scientists?
	
	7. What are Resnik's three main arguments for social responsibility? Do you agree?
	
	8. According to Resnk, what are the three ethical challenges of socially responsible science?
	
	9. Briefly summarize Resnik's five recommendations for helping scientists deal with moral and 
	ethical dilemmas.
-- Task 2
Briefly explain the difference between "tame" problems and "wicked" problems. If given a choice, which would you prefer to work on?
---Task 3
Translate "EXCERPTS_P1_EPA_Guidance-for-SOPs.txt" into Spanish.
NB. Marron's modified APA format applies (see Class Materials in Teams). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.


*** HW_05 [Due: 21 Oct 2025]
-- Task 1
Read the paper, "Deslizamiento de un talud en el Poniente de la ciudad de México (03_Paniagua_Deslizamiento_de_Talud.pdf). Use the Reporter's Toolkit to answer the following questions in English:
	1. Who did the study?
	2. What were the main reasons for the study? And what were the results?
	3. When was the study done?
	4. Where did the study take place?
	5. Why was the study undertaken?
-- Task 2
Define the following vocab words in Spanish and give an English equivalent.
(from 03_Paniagua_Deslizamiento_de_Talud.pdf)
agrietamiento
anclaje
anclas
arena pumítica
calafatear
deslizamiento
estratigráfico
excavación
fracturamiento
geotécnica
heterogéneo
inclinómetro
lahar
malla electrosoldada
paramétrico
pluvial
subyaciendo
talud
tirante (construcción)
topografía
volumétrico
---Task 3
Very briefly explain the major similarities and differences between scientists and engineers in English. Translate to Spanish.

NB. Marron's modified APA format applies (see Class Materials in Teams). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.



*** HW_04 [Due: 014 Oct 2025]
-- Task 1
Translate the Abstract (1 paragraph) from,"Steffen et al. 2018_Trajectories of the Earth System in the Anthropocene.pdf" into Spanish. 
-- Task 2
Define the following vocab words in English and give a Spanish translation of each word.
The Great Wave: Evidence of a large-scale vertical corrugation propagating outwards in the Galactic disc (02_Poggio_Galactic-Wave_2025.pdf
accretion
addendum
amplitude
canonical
compression
correlated
epicyclic
Gaussian
heliocentric
kinematic
Occam's razor
parsec
photometric
propagate
transverse
warp

from Steffen et al (2018) - Trajectories of the Earth System in the Anthropoce.pdf
Anthropocene
accumulated
adjacent
albedo
amplification
anthropogenic
asymptotic
attractor
bifurcation
biogeophysical
biosphere
circumpolar
complex adaptive system
decarbonization
demographic
deterministic
disintegration
disparity
divergent
feedback loops
	negative
	positive
forecasting
Holocene
incremental
intrinsic
nonlinear
oscillations
self-reinforcing
stewardship
thermodynamic
threshold
tipping point
tipping cascades
underpinned
vulnerable



#########
HW 1P
########

***HW_03 [Due: 07 Oct 2025]
-- Task 1
Write extended and complete definitions (in both English and Spanish) for the following terms and concepts:
	System
		(open, closed, isolated, boundary, surroundings, interactions/flows, state, properties)
		
	Intensive property
		(temperature, pressure, velocity, density)
		
	Extensive property
		(mass, charge, linear momentum, angular momentum, energy, and entropy)

	Conservation laws
		(mass, charge, linear momentum, angular momentum, energy)
-- Task 2
Work through the Study Guide for Exam 1P (below). You do not need to answer the study guide questions in your homework, just be sure you can answer the questions on the exam.

Study Guide for Exam 1P
-----------------------
1. Be able to write a condensed summary from your paper on the history of a scientific  discipline in Mexico. Your condensed summary should certainly recount the history of the scientific discipline you selected, but it must focus on the present state of the discipline in Mexico. You should be able to write this condensed summary in both English and Spanish.

2. Describe the mental process that engineers and scientists use to solve a problem. More specifically, 
    a. Given a design or conceptual problem, what is a first step that engineers and scientists  are likely to take? Why?
    b. What are the accepted foundations for conceptualizing a problem? That is, what is the worldview or the overarching mental model that lies at the very foundation of science and engineering? What are the components of this worldview?
    c. What ASSUMPTIONS are made, consciously or not, when engineers and scientists begin modeling a problem?
    d. When are models useful for reaching a solution to a problem? If no solution presents  itself what can the engineer or scientist do?

3. Jargon is defined as the set of special words or expressions that are used by a particular profession or group and are difficult for others to understand. Answer the following related to jargon:
    a. Why does jargon evolve in virtually any human endeavor? 
    b. Is scientific language considered jargon? Explain.
    c. Compare and contrast “ good”  and “ bad”  jargon.

4. The following is a description of a simple system 
A metal pot filled with water is placed on a stove and heated. The system is defined as the metal pot plus the water. As the water heats up, some of it evaporates into the air. The temperature of the water increases, and the volume of the remaining liquid decreases. 
    a. Is this system open, closed, or isolated? Explain your reasoning.
    b. What is entering the system? What is leaving the system? What remains unchanged in the system?
    c. Identify whether each of the following properties is intensive or extensive. Justify your answer.
        ◦ Temperature
        ◦ Mass of the water
        ◦ Density of the water
        ◦ Volume of the water

5. Give a definition of the following terms in both English and Spanish:
    • mass
    • charge
    • linear momentum
    • angular momentum
    • energy

6. Be prepared to translate the abstract from a scientific paper from English to Spanish and/or vice versa. For example, select either the English or Spanish version of the abstract below. Translate to the second language and compare your translation to the one provided by the authors..



*** HW_02 [Due: 30 Sept 2025]
-- Task 1
Take about five or six lines from your favorite poem, music lyric, prose, or "dicho" and jargonize it. Make the phrases as complicated as possible. In your written document (i.e., your homework paper) you must provide the following:
	i) The original material and its source
	ii) Your jargonized version of the original in both English and Spanish	
Standard format applies. We will try to guess the original when you read the jargonized version in class
--- Task 2
What do you consider to be science? Do you think science and technology always lead to progress? Present your opinion in 
a ~ one (1) paragraph statement (English).
-- Task 3
Investigate the mental process that engineers and scientists use to solve a problem. More specifically, answer
the following questions (English):
	i) Given a design or conceptual problem, what is a first step that engineers and scientists 
	are likely to take? Why?
	
	ii) What are the accepted foundations for conceptualizing a problem? That is, what is the 
	worldview or the overarching mental model that lies at the very foundation of science and 
	engineering? What are the components of this worldview?
	
	iii) What ASSUMPTIONS are made, consciously or not, when engineers and scientists begin 
	modeling a problem?
	
	iv) When are models useful for reaching a solution to a problem? If no solution presents 
	itself what can the engineer or scientist do?
Standard format applies and references must be included.

NB. Marron's modified APA format applies (see Class Materials in Teams). As always, assignments must be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.




*** HW_01 [Due: 16 September 2025]
-- Task 1
Select one (1) field of science. You will become an "expert" in this field and will share your knowledge with the class. To begin your path to expertise, you will write, and then translate, a ~two-page account on the history of your selected field of science. The first part of the account will be dedicated to the general history of the field. The second part of the account will be dedicated to the history of the field in Mexico. For this assignment you should plan on 3 to 4 paragraphs per page for a total word count of not less than 750 words. You should provide at least three (3) references. Remember, your deliverable will be the original account, written in English, and the translation, written in Spanish. Be prepared to present and share your findings with the class. Please note that 'presenting and sharing your findings with the class' implies a somewhat informal presentation. I would expect about a 5 min overview of your findings with a focus on Mexico.

For this assignment and for all subsequent written assignments in this class (unless duly noted), we will use Marron's modified APA format. Specifically, documents will be written with:
	* Single-spaced text
	* 0.5 inch margins (left and right)
	* 12-point Times New Roman font, and
	* printed double-sided if possible
References, as needed, must be in a standard format (eg, APA). See "Marron_GeneralStyleGuide.pdf" in Teams under Class Materials.
	
Assignments must always be printed (i.e., hard copy) and submitted to the instructor on the due date (unless duly noted). Students should save copies of all assignments in PDF format.
-- Task 2
Read the following excerpts from Carli & Calaresu's "Language and Science" (pp. 2-7):
	* 1. Introduction
	* 2. Outline and history of the field
		* 2.1. Definitions of science(s)
		* 2.2. History of the field
	
Write a ~three-paragraph summary of the excerpts in English and translate the summary into Spanish. The format requirements above apply.

